# CS-433: Machine Learning Fall 2023, Project 1 
- Team Name: Clementines
- Team Member:
    1. Lou Fourneaux, **SCIPER: 311084** (lou.fourneaux@epfl.ch)
    2. Adrien Feillard, **SCIPER: 315921** (adrien.feillard@epfl.ch)
    3. Laissy Aurélien, **SCIPER: 329573** (aurelien.laissy@epfl.ch)

* [Getting started](#getting-started)
    * [Project description](#project-description)
    * [Data](#data)
    * [Report](#report)
* [Reproduce results](#reproduce-results)
    * [Requirements](#Requirements)
    * [Results](#results)
    * [Repo Architecture](#repo-architecture)
    

# Getting started
## Project description
The aim of this project of Machine Learning do some early detection and prevention MICHD diseases. The goal is to estimate the likelihood of developing MICHD given a certain clinical and lifestyle situation.
The model is based on a vector of features collecting the health-related data of a person.
We preprocess and train the dataset on 6 different regression models using cross validation methods to tune hyperparameters. and we assess which one gives the best f1 score to give the best prediction.

More details about the project are available in `project1_description.pdf`.
## Data
The data that you we used comes from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), a system of
health-related telephone surveys that collects state data about U.S. residents regarding their health-related risk
behaviors, chronic health conditions, and use of preventive services. In particular, respondents were classified
as having coronary heart disease (MICHD) if they reported having been told by a provider they had MICHD.
Respondents were also classified as having MICHD if they reported having been told they had a heart attack (i.e.,
myocardial infarction) or angina.
 The dataset is available at https://www.aicrowd.com/challenges/epfl-machine-learning-project-1/dataset_files. To reproduce the results the files should be added to the repo, as described in [Repo Architecture](#repo-architecture). A detailed description of the dataset is available in 'https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/annual_data/annual_2015.html'.

## Report
All the details about the choices that have been made and the methodology used throughout this project are available in `report.pdf`. In this report, the different asumptions, decisions and results made and found are explained.
## Reproduce results
The results have been produced on a Anaconda Prompt terminal with anaconda version: 23.9.0

- Open your terminal and access the folder in which the repository is going to be cloned using cd
- Clone the repository
- Make sure that the folder where the repository is cloned has a sub-folder called "dataset" with the files x_train.csv, y_train.csv and x_test.csv
- Execute: python run.py
- A file called 'submission' has been created with the required format

## Requirements
- Python==3.11.5
- Numpy==1.24.3

## Results
The performances of the model is assessed on AirCrowd from `data/submission.csv` generated by `run.py`. The model achieves a global accuracy of "0.837" with a F1-score of "0.3910" the submission ID on AIcrowd is 243811.

## Repo Architecture
<pre>  
├─── submission: File generated by run.py. Contains predictions of the model computed by run.py.
├─── dataset: Folder containing the data files.
    ├─── x_test.csv: File containing samples to be predicted.
    ├─── x_train.csv: File with labeled sample used for training.
    ├─── y_train.csv: File with labeled sample used for training.
├─── project1_description.pdf: Original description of the project provided by EPFL.
├─── 2015_Codebook_Report.pdf: Reference used to understand features of the dataset.
├─── costs.py: File containing the costs functions used to calcule the losses
├─── cross_validation.py: File containing functions to find the best hyperparameters for each optimization methods
├─── data_processing.py: File containing implementations to process the raw data.
├─── functions.py: Files containing functions used in the computation of implementations.py
├─── helpers.py: File provided by EPFL containing methods to load the data and create submissions for aircrowd.
├─── implementations.py: File containing basics ML implementations asked in the project description.
├─── run.py: File that load the dataset, launch the cross validation, trains models with parameters  and generate submissison.csv.
├─── report.pdf: Report explaining choices that has been made.
└─── README.md: README


